our elf and spend today in this quad
Berkshire Valley here of a centuries
time and tomorrow have been measured in
terms of how tall the corn will be
whether the stock will be ready to
market and how the - we are old from the
local stable will do in the three thirty
but suddenly midst of the old world a
new force has arrived the atom this
peaceful village is on the doorstep of
the government's Atomic Research Center
young vigorous with its own ideas that's
the shape of the world to come and the
old folks wonder what the Atta means
what it will bring old folk who want to
be left alone
into the mind of third Bailey the
Shepherd has crept a question mark all
his life his sheep have grazed on the
green and gentle Valley now over there
the Animas made its bow the Adam and the
Lambs side by side
it's the talk of the village its topic a
in the pub what's going on Hoss bill
Bradfield secret suspect
I wonder why things been naughty
the etem there are across the valley
behind walls of white concrete the atom
is yielding its secrets to britain
scientists behind a ring of wire the
forces of tomorrow's power are being
unlocked on the very doorstep of a
village with 1:40 yesterday but this is
Harwell in berkshire and this is the
government Atomic Energy Research
Establishment even the old Harwell
airfield is out of date now the air Tom
has arrived
new faces I see new accents are heard in
the village today a new population of
strangers has arrived from the
office-boy to the biggest puffin of all
they are stopped at the gates there's a
guard not a village constable security
police they call them a new town
complete with new modern homes has grown
up here homes that somehow don't belong
in the rolling downs and the Green
Valley
all day long lorries come and go desktop
- the gates - surely they don't think
there's a spider
the bustling activity the noise the
secrecy all these things are alien to
country folk what is it all about
not long ago the men from the atom
station met the local people in the
village hall
told them what was going on but it
didn't seem to make much sense they
explained that the atom was something
more than an instrument of death
explained that here a hard bite a
village was being made the greatest
experiment in the experience of human
endeavor
the villagers let them get on with it
the atom has nothing to do with them
it belongs to tomorrow and tomorrow can
take care of itself in the atom